# PickMyMajor
freshman year final project // credit to my co-op eve with parts of code and research!
## Project Documentation
### Project Introduction
The main idea of the project is to create a survey where students can help get some clarity on which major they should choose based on their interests/skills.
### Project Description
This project is needed because there are thousands of students out there who either need to choose a major to pursue or they need to change their major. The goal for this project is to help indecisive students connect their interests and skills to a major they could excel in. To achieve this, the survey opens with 2 important options to either start the survey, or to learn about the majors offered by the program. If the user chooses to start the survey, the user will be asked a series of questions in which they will have 5 options: Strongly Agree, Agree, Neutral, Disagree, and Strongly Disagree. Based on the answer, the program will add or take away points from the specific major(s) that question was tied to. After the survey finishes, the program will tally up the major with the most points, and a statement will print telling the user that that is the major that best suits them. We hope that with this survey we can help users out in deciding what major works best for them. 
### Programming Concepts Used
-If statements: The if statements used in this program include the ones that test if a file can be opened or not for all of our functions that include file handling. While the if statements we have in our code are important, they are not the most important part of our code.
-loops - loops are integral to most of our functions, for example the main interface is a while loop that continues until 0 is entered, and the questions are do while loops that continue until a valid number is entered.
-switch cases: Switch cases are probably some of the most integral parts of our code. We have switch cases in almost every single function we have. The main examples being in the main function, where there is a switch case to go through each of the options the user could choose, and the search function, where each switch case connects to a specific text file to open in order to learn about the major in that text file.
-structs: The structure “major” in this program is used in almost every function, it is used to keep track of the major names and the amount of points each major gains/loses.
-file handling: The file handling in this program is in the search function. We used file handling to open the text file containing the list of all the majors in our quiz. Then, we made a user input-code where we let the user input a number associated with that major, and the switch case mentioned above works hand in hand with the file handling, as each statement is a certain text file to open and print depending on what major the user chose.
-strings: string functions were mostly used to copy certain variables or text.
-functions: The most important and external part of our code. Each code we have does a different action that caters to the choices on the main screen. There is the main function, the initializing majors function, the survey function where the questions to the survey are asked, the calculating major function, where the top major with the most points is calculated, the function where points are displayed, the search function where majors and their information are listed, display and save data functions, where users can save and print their saved survey entries, and the question function, where is where all the points are given/taken from.
### Code Description
the questions function: The question function is one of the fundamental parts of our code. This function is where the survey answer input by the user is recorded and based on the number given, the specific major(s) that question is tied to gains/loses points.
information about the majors(the file handling): This function is option 4, where the program prints a text file that lists all the majors available in the survey, and a user inputs a number corresponding to that major in order to open that majors text file that contains a brief description, some careers that the user can work with that degree, and the average entry level salary.
Saving your data function : This feature saves a users results from the survey. The results are stored under a name that the user chooses. They can view this data later by entering their inputted name.
### Conclusion and future works
It is concluded that the main objective of the application is to help the community by providing students a way to find out which major would be best for them. By browsing through the application, finding out more info about each major, and evaluating results from their survey (or saving it to evaluate them some other time), students are able to learn more about which major they should choose.  Future work could involve making the search function more efficient by implementing more file handling and working with structures, along with potentially adding more majors and options for how students can learn more about each major (going into more detail or providing more options).
